# Learn Hubot the Hard Way

Learn how to install, configure and even contribute to hubot.

**IMPORTANT**

I am currently compiling information about how different companies are using
hubot within their company. Specifically any cool custom scripts you have
written or public scripts you have modified. I am not looking for the source for
any private scripts, just what you're making hubot do.

More information: https://gist.github.com/3161806

## Description

Learn Hubot the Hard Way is an independently written book about hubot. I chose
to write the book because I want to help more people and companies deploy and
use hubot to automate mundane tasks and create a more relaxed and fun working
environment.

I would also love to see many more people contribute scripts to the hubot
scripts repository. Even maybe contribute to the core of hubot as well. So the
late chapters of the book are dedicated to helping people learn how to write
their own scripts and how the internals of hubot actually work.

As a passionate contributer to open source projects I would love to see hubot
and hubot scripts become a great way to get new developers introduced and
committing to open source projects.

## Contents

### 1. Installing and Deploying Hubot

Learn how to install hubot locally or deploy to Heroku for free.

### 2. Hubot Adapters

Learn how to use hubot with another adapter such as IRC.

### 3. Introduction to Hubot Scripts

Learn what hubot scripts are and how to pick and choose the ones you want to
use.

### 4. Writing Your First Hubot Script

Learn how to write your first hubot script and all the tools available to making
your ideal scripts.

### 5. Using the HTTP Listener

Learn how to use the built in HTTP server in hubot to expose URLs that you can
use as HTTP endpoints or serve HTML content.

### 6. Contributing Your Scripts

Learn how to contribute your hubot scripts directly back to hubot.

### 7. Real World Hubot

Learn how companies and people are using hubot to help run their companies.

### 8. Hubot Internals

Learn what makes hubot tick internally, you'll learn everything there is to know
about how hubot works so you can help contribute features and fixes to the core.

*Please note*: the actually structure and content are subject to change until
the first release of the book.

## Where Do I Get the Book?

The source of the book will always be available for free in this repository. If
you wish to purchase a copy of the ebook as a pdf or mobile format you can go
purchase a copy from http://leanpub.com/learnhubotthehardway and you'll receive
all future updates to the book as well for free.

You are free to distribute this book to anyone you want, so long as you do not
charge anything for it, and it is not altered. You must give away the book in
its entirety, or not at all.

Until the book is released you can register your interest and amount you would
be willing to pay on the page. Please also tell your friends about the book.


## Copyright

Copyright &copy; 2012 Tom Bell
